This repository from ProPublica deals with a data reporting project called "Machine Bias". The story "Machine Bias" tells that a software called "Correctional Offender Management Profiling for Alternative Sanctions" that is used to predict the risks of recidivism of current criminals has bias against black defendants. 

The repository contains two categories of content. One is the story and an explanatory article of their methodology. The other one is all data files for analysis and the note for data analysis. 

The ProPublica data team did two analyses to reach this conclusion. Firstly they used simple distribution of the COMPAS scores and logistic regression models that considered different demographic factors for analysis, with an result that the black are more easily to be rated a higher recividism risk than the white; secondly they fit a Cox proportional hazards model to the data to test the predictive accuracy of COMPAS, and found that the COMPAS system has some predictive value, but lower than what the system developers have claimed themselves.

This project attracts me a lot because of both the results and the methods. As a previous public safety reporter at Missourian I'm personally very interested in crime stories, and the result is really significant since it reveals a newer and deeper situation in the old stereotype against races. It tells how new technology today can continue reflecting and keeping the stereotype in people's minds. More importantly, the story itself brings up a social issue that the acceptance and expectation from the society to those who used to be criminals are quite low. For the methodology part, although I cannot fully understand the datasets and the codes, the two-layer analyses and the comparison between real records and predictive scores are very persuasive. This is a great example to illustrate how regression models can be applied into journalistic practices.

Technically, I'm curious about how ProPublica used codes to conduct the regression. Since for me it seems like we can do the same thing using SPSS, I wonder how they wrote the codes for this issue. Can one set of codes produce all the outputs for every regression pair of independent variable and dependent variable by running just once? Also, since the time span for the criminal records datasets are two-year, I wonder will there be a difference for a longer time-span situation? How to validate the selection of a two-year span is my concern. 
